# Matlab routines for the identification of representative equivalent volumes on the microstructure of 3D-printed fiber reinforced thermoplastics based on statistical characterization.

If either the code or parts of it are used in your research, the article Dutra, T.A.; Ferreira, R.T.L.; Resende, H.B.; Oliveira, L.M.; Blinzler, B.J.; Asp, L.E. Identification of Representative Equivalent Volumes on the Microstructure of 3D-Printed Fiber-Reinforced Thermoplastics Based on Statistical Characterization. Polymers 2022, 14, 972 (https://doi.org/10.3390/polym14050972) must be cited. In addition, it must be acknowledged in relevant publications.

In the present MATLAB script a random initial position (x0,y0) for the cropped region is defined and it is verified if the whole cropped region is within the cross-section micrograph. Otherwise, a new position is defined. Then, the algorithm computes the fiber distribution by identifying the material constituents, i.e., matrix and fiber, based on the Circular Hough Transform and, after determining the pixels corresponding to fibers, converts the original image to a binary image, e.g., assigning 0 for the matrix and 1 for the fiber.

Next, the fiber volume fraction of the cropped region is obtained computing the proportion of the number of pixels representing the fibers to the total number of pixels of cropped regions. Depending on the position where the region is cropped from the cross-section micrograph, the fiber volume fraction may change. Therefore, if the computed fiber volume fraction is not within the range previously defined, the algorithm goes back to the first step where a new position for the cropped region is defined. If the computed fiber volume fraction is within the defined range, it is then verified if the cropped region is intersecting, or overlapping, another cropped region previously defined.

Lastly, the cropped image is saved and an output file, which is used as an input data to computational homogenization analyses, is written. This output file contains the geometrical position and the pixels assigned values which corresponds to the material constituents, e.g., 0 for the matrix and 1 for the fibers. Please note that images with fair resolution may provide inaccurate results.
